---
layout: post
title:  "Week 8"
date:   2020-09-13 19:34:48 +1300
categories: jekyll update
---

# Material UI Styles

Most of our styling for our site would be managed by Tabler and possibly material UI, but we may have to apply some custom styling to each component to get a theme or alignment going. I had worked with material UI styles in my previous project and knew that this would help us in our development by taking away the need to deal with classes and an ever increasing style sheet. So I taught my teammate what material ui styles were and how to use them, I did this by making an example makeStyles() with him.

Heres an example of how it works:

```javascript
const useStyles = makeStyles((theme) => ({
    button: {
      margin: theme.spacing(1),
    },
  }));


export default function EmployeesTable() {
    const classes = useStyles();

    return (
    <Button className={classes.Button}>Button</Button>
    )
}
```

# Auth

Users need to be able to log into our site separate from the Xero authentication so I started looking for authentication frameworks that we could use in our project. I found that the most popular or 'recommended' framework is Identity. Its officially supported and has its own section in the Microsoft docs. It also would allow future integration with third-party logins such as Google and Twitter etc.

The only problem was that I tried scaffolding Identity into the project but it wasn't working ([this tutorial](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/aspnet/core/security/authentication/scaffold-identity?view=aspnetcore-5.0&tabs=visual-studio)). Because of the configuration of the project we chose at the beginning was creating compatibility issues between the various NuGet packages. The same problem that was preventing me from generating ADO.NET files.

This meant that I had to follow a tutorial to manually build Identity into the project. This was the only tutorial that I could find that matched our current circumstances: 

[http://bipinjoshi.net/articles/b957238b-e2dd-4401-bfd7-f0b8d984786d.aspx](http://bipinjoshi.net/articles/b957238b-e2dd-4401-bfd7-f0b8d984786d.aspx)

However, after finishing the tutorial the authentication system was still bugged and wouldn't launch. It was at this point that I held a meeting with my teammate to talk about the configuration of our project. Through researching Identity implementation I had discovered that the most recommended way to get Identity was to generate a project with Identity built-in. So, the most viable and time effecient way to get Identity into our project would be to make a new project with Identity and move our current content into it.

So after weighing up the Pros and Cons we decided that it would be the best idea to regenerate the project. I also took this opportunity to fix some issues we were having with the previous project:

- I removed Tabler as it was filling wwwroot with flag svgs and the docs weren't very helpful, this made using Tabler a pain.
- I made it so the project auto migrates on run so that we wouldn't have to go through a separate process. I did this with the following small amount of code in Startup.cs:

```C#
        public void Configure(IApplicationBuilder app, IWebHostEnvironment env, ApplicationDbContext dataContext)
        {
            ...

            dataContext.Database.Migrate();
        }
```

The pull request for this can be found [here](https://github.com/Marrnj2/XeroWebProject/pull/45)
